Add documentation support (#114)
analogdevicesinc/testbenches: docs/library/IPs/template_ip/index.rst

:orphan:

> .. _template_ip:

Reviewer: Maybe we should give it a name like tb_template_ip, as we already have this name in the HDL documentation. I'm not sure if it will come to a point where the tool gets confused

Reviewer 2: It's okay to reuse tags, because when cross-referencing between repos we use `:ref-<repo>:` instead of just `:ref:`, e.g. ```:ref-hdl:`template_ip` ```

IP Template
================================================================================

> .. hdl-component-diagram::

Reviewer 2: This is not compatible with the current testbenches repo structure.
Valid for all `hdl-*` directives
I would remove from any template.

After we rework the repo structure, we can consider implementing the custom directives here also.

Author: Should I create some testbenches-* directives?

Also, is there a way to point to diagrams from the HDL repo instead of having a copy of them in Testbenches?

Reviewer 2: I believe it's fair to reuse the same directive,
The `hdl-component-diagram` `hdl-interfaces` `hdl-parameters` are compatible with this repo, just need to update the `option` path to point a valid (V)IP.

I suggest updating the template hdl directives `path` options from `library/spi_engine/spi_engine_execution` and `library/axi_ad9783`  to SPI VIP `common/sv/spi_vip`  in the `library/xilinx/clk_vip/index.rst` file lines 9, 40, 51. (and after the repo is restructured, update again to `library/spi_vip`).

I tested it here, after the edit, I built the SPI VIP `(cd common/sv/spi_vip ; make)` to generate ` common/sv/spi_vip/component.xml` and then built the doc.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3eef69d-f55a-4e61-a1a3-87e2e5fffa91).

About the `hdl-regmap` directive, I don't think the VIP will have a regmap, instead they are/shoud_be managed by an API in SystemVerilog (method calls). But that is something to discuss, and if we allow VIPs regmaps, we could use the same structure as the hdl repo: store it in `docs/regmap/adi_<regmap>.txt`

However, why was `template_ip/index.rst` renamed to `clk_vip/index.rst`?

> Also, is there a way to point to diagrams from the HDL repo instead of having a copy of them in Testbenches?

Image diagrams? like 
```
.. image:: block_diagram.svg
   :alt: AXI AD7616 block diagram
```
Relative paths are valid, like ```.. image:: ../../../../docs/library/axi_ad7616/block_diagram.svg```, just not sure if we should.

   :path: library/spi_engine/spi_engine_execution

Features
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* AXI-based configuration
* Vivado and Quartus Compatible

Files
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Description
   * - :git-hdl:`library/axi_dmac/axi_dmac.v`
     - Verilog source for the peripheral.

Block Diagram
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: ../axi_dmac/block_diagram.svg
   :alt: Template IP block diagram
   :align: center

Configuration Parameters
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. hdl-parameters::
   :path: library/spi_engine/spi_engine_interconnect

   * - DATA_WIDTH
     - Data width of the parallel SDI/SDO data interfaces.

.. _template_ip interface:

Interface
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. hdl-interfaces::
   :path: library/axi_ad9783

Detailed Architecture
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> ::

Reviewer: Is this for code?

   .. image:: detailed_architecture.svg
      :alt: Template IP detailed architecture
      :align: center

Detailed Description
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The top module instantiates

* The ADC channel register map.
* The ADC common register map.
* The AXI handling interface.

The data from the interface module is processed by the ADC channel module.
The Up_adc_common  module implements the ADC COMMON register map, allowing for
basic monitoring and control of the ADC.
The Up_adc_channel module implements the ADC CHANNEL register map, allowing for
basic monitoring and control of the ADC's channel.

Register Map
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. hdl-regmap::
   :name: COMMON
   :no-type-info:

.. hdl-regmap::
   :name: ADC_COMMON
   :no-type-info:

.. hdl-regmap::
   :name: ADC_CHANNEL
   :no-type-info:

Design Guidelines
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The control of the chip is done through an SPI interface, which is needed at the
> system level.
> The :ref:`template_ip interface` must be connected directly to the top file of
> the design, as IO primitives are part of the  IP.
> 
> The example design uses a DMA to move the data from the output of the IP to memory.
> If the data needs to be processed in HDL before moving to the memory, it can be
> done at the output of the IP (at the  system level) or inside the ADC interface
> module (at the IP level).
> The example design uses a processor to program all the registers.
> If no processor is available in your system, you  can create your IP starting
> from the interface module.

Reviewer: Reordered it a little bit

```suggestion
The control of the chip is done through an SPI interface, which is needed at
system level.
The :ref:`template_ip interface` must be connected directly to the top file of
the design, as I/O primitives are part of the IP.

The example design uses a DMA to move the data from the output of the IP to 
the memory. If the data needs to be processed in HDL before moving to the
memory, it can be done at the output of the IP (at the system level) or inside
the ADC interface module (at the IP level).

The example design uses a processor to program all the registers.
If no processor is available in your system, you can create your IP starting
from the interface module.
```

> Software Guidelines

Reviewer: Maybe we could do something here like in the HDL one: https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/hdl/blob/main/docs/library/template_ip/index.rst?plain=1#L110-L134 

See an example here: https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/hdl/blob/main/docs/library/axi_ad9467/index.rst?plain=1#L172-L194
